Port elastictube1d to tutorials (#39)
precice/elastictube1d: README.md

---
title: 1D Elastic Tube
permalink: unknown
keywords: OpenFOAM, python
summary: The 1D Elastic Tube is a FSI case, that consists of an internal flow in a flexible tube. The flow is unsteady and incompressible. This tutorial can be run using C++ or python.  Running the simulation takes a few minutes. 
---

## Setup

> An accurate descrption of the setup and the physics of the problem is described [here](https://github.com/precice/precice/wiki/1D-elastic-tube:-Case-Description). 

Reviewer: We need to update all the references to the wiki to the new website.
Also, try to avoid links with "here" as a title. Instead, write something like "in the documentation page X".
But in any case, we probably should move all the information into this page.

Author: i have written below "ALTERNATIVE TO THE LINK" what I think it would make sense to have here

Reviewer: The tutorial on the website will be here: https://www.precice.org/tutorials-elastic-tube-1d.html

## Available solvers

Both fluid and solid participant are supported in:

* *cxx*

> * *python*: 

Reviewer: Is something missing here?

The python version is realized using the Python API for preCICE. Check the [preCICE wiki](https://github.com/precice/precice/wiki/1D-elastic-tube-using-the-Python-API) for more information on this example.

## Running the Simulation 

### C++

Open two separate terminals and start each participant by calling the respective run script. 

Serial run:

```
./fluid-cpp/build/FluidSolver precice-config.xml N tau kappa
```
and
```
./solid-cpp/build/SolidSolver precice-config.xml N
```
 
Parallel run:

```
mpiexec -np <nproc> ./fluid-cpp/build/FluidSolver precice-config.xml N tau kappa -parallel
```
and
```
mpiexec -np <nproc> ./solid-cpp/build/SolidSolver precice-config.xml N -parallel
```
A working known combination for the input parameters is N=100, tau = 0.01, kappa = 100. Other parameters like the simulation's end time, you can modify them in the precice-config.xml.

> Note that you first need to build the scripts `FluidSolver` and `SolidSolver`. Each script needs to be build separately.

Reviewer: Better move this before the "running" part.

```
cd fluid-cpp
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make all
```

```
cd solid-cpp
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. 
make all
```

### python

Open two separate terminals and start each participant by calling the respective run script. Only serial run is possible:

```
python3 ./fluid-python/FluidSolver.py precice-config.xml 
```
and
```
python3 ./solid-python/SolidSolver.py precice-config.xml 
```

> Parameters such as N can be modified directly at the `FluidSolver.py` and at the `SolidSolver.py`. The parameters must be coherent between the different solvers and participants. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameters such as N can be modified directly at the `FluidSolver.py` and at the `SolidSolver.py`. The parameters must be consistent between the different solvers and participants. 
```

**Optional:** Visualization and video output of the fluid participant can be triggered via the options `--enable-plot` and `--write-video` of `FluidSolver.py`. To generate .vtk files during execution, you need to add the flag `--write-vtk`.

## Post-processing

The `Postproc/` folder contains the .vtk files resulting from the execution, which you can visualize using eg. paraview. Alternatively you can visualize the results with the provided `Postproc/fluid.py` script:

```bash
$ python3 Postproc/fluid.py <quantity> Postproc/<prefix>
```
Note the required arguments specifying which quantity to plot (`pressure`, `velocity` or `diameter`) and a name prefix for the target vtk files.

For example, to plot the diameter using the default prefix for vtk files, we execute:
```bash
$ python3 Postproc/fluid.py diameter Postproc/out_fluid_
```

> ![FSI3 setup](images/diameter.png)

Reviewer: I guess that the image needs to be updated, right?

Author: I keep this open in case the updated image is not the final one:)

---
title: 1D Elastic Tube
permalink: unknown
keywords: OpenFOAM, python

> summary: The 1D Elastic Tube is a FSI case, that consists of an internal flow in a flexible tube. The flow is unsteady and incompressible. This tutorial can be run using C++ or python.  Running the simulation takes a few minutes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: The 1D Elastic Tube is a FSI case, that consists of an internal flow in a flexible tube. The flow is unsteady and incompressible. This tutorial contains C++ and Python variants of the fluid and structure solvers.  Running the simulation takes just 1-2 minutes. 
```

---

## Setup

ALTERNATIVE TO THE LINK:

We want to simulate the internal flow in a flexible tube as shown in the figure below (image from [1]).

![FSI3 setup](images/setup.png)

> Fluid is assumed to be incompressible flow and gravity is neglected. Due to the axisymmetry, the flow can be described using a quasi-two dimensional continuity and momentum equations. The motivation and exact formulation of the equations that we consider can be found in [2]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The flow is assumed to be incompressible and gravity is neglected. Due to the axisymmetry, the flow can be described using a quasi two dimensional continuity and momentum equations. The motivation and exact formulation of the equations that we consider can be found in [2]. 
```
(I am very confused if it should be `quasi-two-dimensional`, `quasi two dimensional`, `quasi-two dimensional`, or `quasi two-dimensional`... :confused: )

Author: I found results with every combination but since I see that Nature uses `quasi-two-dimensional` I guess I can take this one as the good one.

The following parameters have been chosen:
- Length of the tube: L = 10

> - Inlet velocity: v_inlet = 10 + 3 sin (10 PI t)

Reviewer: I think LaTeX also works:
```suggestion
- Inlet velocity: $$ v_inlet = 10 + 3 sin (10 PI t) $$
```
See https://www.precice.org/docs-meta-cheatsheet.html#latex-math-syntax

Author: actually, the latex thingie it's not working for me, you can see the $$ in the readme...

Reviewer: I just hope it will appear correctly in the website. If not, we change it back later.

- Initial cross sectional area = 1
- Initial velocity: v = 10
- Initial pressure: p = 0
- Young modulus: E = 10000

> LINK:

Reviewer: todo

An accurate description of the setup and the physics of the problem is described [here](https://github.com/precice/precice/wiki/1D-elastic-tube:-Case-Description). 

## Available solvers

Both fluid and solid participant are supported in:

* *C++*
* *python*

> The python version is realized using the Python API for preCICE. Check the [preCICE wiki](https://github.com/precice/precice/wiki/1D-elastic-tube-using-the-Python-API) for more information on this example.

Reviewer: todo: link update

### Building the C++ Solver

In order to use the C++ solver, you first need to build the scripts `FluidSolver` and `SolidSolver`. Each script needs to be built separately.

```
cd fluid-cpp
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make all
```

```
cd solid-cpp
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. 
make all
```

Building can be skipped if you do not plan to use the C++ version.  

## Running the Simulation 

### C++

Open two separate terminals and start each participant by calling the respective run script. 

Serial run:

```
./fluid-cpp/build/FluidSolver precice-config.xml N tau kappa
```
and
```
./solid-cpp/build/SolidSolver precice-config.xml N
```
 
Parallel run:

```
mpiexec -np <nproc> ./fluid-cpp/build/FluidSolver precice-config.xml N tau kappa -parallel
```
and
```
mpiexec -np <nproc> ./solid-cpp/build/SolidSolver precice-config.xml N -parallel
```

> A working known combination for the input parameters is N=100, tau = 0.01, kappa = 100. Other parameters like the simulation's end time, you can modify them in the precice-config.xml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A working known combination for the input parameters is N=100, tau = 0.01, kappa = 100.
```
I think we can safely remove this line, as this is anyway explained in the Quickstart and other places.

> ### python

Reviewer: Let's use `Python` with uppercase `P` everywhere in the `README.md`, for consistency with the rest of the documentation.

Open two separate terminals and start each participant by calling the respective run script. Only serial run is possible:

```
python3 ./fluid-python/FluidSolver.py precice-config.xml 
```
and
```
python3 ./solid-python/SolidSolver.py precice-config.xml 
```
Parameters such as N can be modified directly at the `FluidSolver.py` and at the `SolidSolver.py`. The parameters must be consistent between the different solvers and participants. 

**Optional:** Visualization and video output of the fluid participant can be triggered via the options `--enable-plot` and `--write-video` of `FluidSolver.py`. To generate .vtk files during execution, you need to add the flag `--write-vtk`.

## Post-processing

> The `Postproc/` folder contains the .vtk files resulting from the execution, which you can visualize using eg. paraview. Alternatively you can visualize the results with the provided `Postproc/fluid.py` script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Postproc/` folder contains the .vtk files resulting from the execution, which you can visualize using e.g. ParaView. Alternatively you can visualize the results with the provided `Postproc/fluid.py` script:
```

(sorry for being so pedantic, but these are also easy fixes :) )

```bash
$ python3 Postproc/fluid.py <quantity> Postproc/<prefix>
```

> Note the required arguments specifying which quantity to plot (`pressure`, `velocity` or `diameter`) and a name prefix for the target vtk files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the required arguments specifying which quantity to plot (`pressure`, `velocity` or `diameter`) and the name prefix of the target vtk files.
```

For a moment I was confused that I needed to select a prefix to assign.

For example, to plot the diameter using the default prefix for vtk files, we execute:
```bash
$ python3 Postproc/fluid.py diameter Postproc/out_fluid_
```

> ![FSI3 setup](images/python.png)

Reviewer: Please also rename the images to fit the pattern described in https://github.com/precice/tutorials/pull/163.
The reason is that the website system (Jekyll) collects all the image files into one directory, so we are doing some "namespacing" by ourselves.

Author: Then I understand I should use `tutorials-elastictube1d-diameter.png` and `tutorials-elastictube1d-setup.png` ?

Reviewer: Yes, exactly.

If you run the case in parallel, you can visualize the results calculated by one rank (eg. rank 0) as follows:

```bash
$ python3 Postproc/fluid.py diameter Postproc/out_fluid_
```

> An image of this diameter plot can be found in the `/images` folder.

Reviewer: Which file are you referring to exactly? Let's refer to it directly (at least by filename).

Author: actually i think it makes sense to delete the whole sentence

> An image of this diameter plot can be found in the `/images` folder.

Reviewer: Maybe we could also enable the watchpoint in the `precice-config.xml` and add the picture here? The picture is already in `images/`.

We could also delete the old `images/diameter.png`.
